= registers =
== 86 family ==
the most common instruction set for CPUs are the x86 instruction set by intel. amd later created an instruction set
called amd64, which is the x86 instruction set for CPUs with 64 bit registers; hence the names amd64 (by amd) and
x06_64 (by intel). They are the same thing, with different names.

=== 8086 16 bit registers ===
the 8086 CPUs provided four 16-bit general purpose registers: AX, BX, CX and DX. Each of those registers can be 
decomposed into two 8-bit registers 
i.e. the AX register can be decomposed into the AH and AL registers, where AH contains the upper
(high) 8 bits of AX and AL contains the bottom (lower) 8 bits of AX. They can be used as independent registers, but 
if AX was to be modified, AL and AH will also be; neither are independent of AX. Registers are used to move data and 
do arithmetic operations.

There are two 16-bit index registers: SI and DI - they usually serve as pointers but can be also used as the general
purpose registers. They can't be decomposed into 8-bit registers though.

The 16-bit BP and SP registers are used to point in data in the machine language stack and are called the Base pointer 
and the stack pointer. 

The 16-bit CS, DS, SS and ES registers are segment registers - they denote what memory is used for different parts of
a program. CS - Code segment, DS data segment, SS stack segment and ES - Extra segment. ES is used as a temporary
memory register.

The instruction pointer (IP) register is used with the CS register to keep track of the address of the next instruction
to be executed by the cpu. Normally, when an instruction is executed, the IP is advanced to the next instruciton.

the FLAGS register stores info about the results of the previous instruction. Theyre stored as bits in the register.

=== 80386 32-bit registers ===
The 80386 (and later) processors have extended registers: E.g. the 16-bit AX register is extended to be 32-bits.
To be backwards compatible, AX still is the 16-bit register and EAX refers to the extended 32-bit register. AX
is the lower 16-bits of EAX, just as AL is the lower 8-bits of AX. There is no way to access the upper 16-bits 
directly. 

There are other registers, like EBX, ECD, EDX, ESI and EDI. Other registers are extended as well; BP -> EBP, 
SP->ESP, FLAGS->EFLAGS, IP->EIP. However, unlike the general purpose and index registers, in 32-bit protected mode 
only the extended versions of these registers are used. The segment registers remain 16-bit. There are two new
segment registers though, FS and GS. They don't stand for anything, just temporary segment registers (like ES)


